.TH "TERMINATOR" "1" "Jan 5, 2008" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
Terminator \- Multiple GNOME terminals in one window
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B terminator
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents \fBTerminator\fP, a terminal emulator application.
.PP
\fBTerminator\fP is a program that allows users to set up flexible
arrangements of GNOME terminals. It is aimed at those who normally
arrange lots of terminals near each other, but don't want to use a
frame based window manager.
.SH "OPTIONS"
This program follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`\-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the version of the Terminator installation
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-maximise
Start with a maximised window
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fullscreen
Start with a fullscreen window
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-borderless
Instruct the window manager not to render borders/decoration on the
Terminator window (this works well with \-m)
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-hidden
Hide the Terminator window by default. Its visibility can be toggled
with the \fBhide_window\fR keyboard shortcut (Ctrl-Shift-Alt-a by default)
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-title
Force the Terminator window to use a specific name rather than updating it dynamically
based on the wishes of the child shell.
.TP
.B \-\-geometry=GEOMETRY
Specifies the preferred size and position of Terminator's window; see X(7).
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-command=COMMAND
Runs the specified command instead of your default shell or profile specified command. Note: if
Terminator is launched as x-terminal-emulator \-e behaves like \-x, and the longform becomes
\-\-execute2=COMMAND
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-execute COMMAND [ARGS]
Runs \fBthe rest of the command line\fR instead of your default shell or profile specified command.
.TP
.B \-\-working\-directory=DIR
Set the terminal's working directory
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-role=ROLE
Set a custom WM_WINDOW_ROLE property on the window
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-classname=CLASSNAME
Set a custom name (WM_CLASS) property on the window
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-layout=LAYOUT
Start Terminator with a specific layout. The argument here is the name
of a saved layout.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-select-layout=LAYOUT
Open the layout launcher window instead of the normal terminal.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-profile=PROFILE
Use a different profile as the default
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-icon=FORCEDICON
Set a custom icon for the window (by file or name)
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-no-dbus
Disable DBus
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable debugging output (please use this when reporting bugs). This
can be specified twice to enable a built-in python debugging server.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-classes=DEBUG_CLASSES
If this is specified as a comma separated list, debugging output will
only be printed from the specified classes.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-methods=DEBUG_METHODS
If this is specified as a comma separated list, debugging output will
only be printed from the specified functions. If this is specified in
addition to \-\-debug-classes, only the intersection of the two lists
will be displayed
.TP
.B \-\-new-tab
If this is specified and Terminator is already running, DBus will be
used to spawn a new tab in the first Terminator window.
.SH "KEYBINDINGS"
The following default keybindings can be used to control Terminator:
.TP
.B F1
Launches the full HTML manual.
.SS Creation & Destruction
.PP
The following items relate to creating and destroying terminals.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+O
Split terminals H\fBo\fRrizontally.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+E
Split terminals V\fBe\fRrtically.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+T
Open new \fBt\fRab.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+I
Open a new window. (Note: Unlike in previous releases, this window is
part of the same Terminator process.)
.TP
.B Super+I
Spawn a new Terminator process.
.TP
.B Alt+L
Open \fBl\fRayout launcher.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+W
Close the current terminal.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Q
Close the current window.
.SS Navigation
.PP
The following items relate to moving between and around terminals.
.TP
.B Alt+Up
Move to the terminal \fBabove\fR the current one.
.TP
.B Alt+Down
Move to the terminal \fBbelow\fR the current one.
.TP
.B Alt+Left
Move to the terminal \fBleft of\fR the current one.
.TP
.B Alt+Right
Move to the terminal \fBright of\fR the current one.
.TP
.B Ctrl+PageDown
Move to next Tab.
.TP
.B Ctrl+PageUp
Move to previous Tab.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+N or Ctrl+Tab
Move to \fBn\fRext terminal within the same tab, use Ctrl+PageDown to move to the next tab.
If \fBcycle_term_tab\fR is \fBFalse\fR, cycle within the same tab will be disabled.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+P or Ctrl+Shift+Tab
Move to \fBp\fRrevious terminal within the same tab, use Ctrl+PageUp to move to the previous tab.
If \fBcycle_term_tab\fR is \fBFalse\fR, cycle within the same tab will be disabled.
.SS Organisation
.PP
The following items relate to arranging and resizing terminals.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Right
Move parent dragbar \fBRight\fR.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Left
Move parent dragbar \fBLeft\fR.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Up
Move parent dragbar \fBUp\fR.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Down
Move parent dragbar \fBDown\fR.
.TP
.B Super+R
\fBR\fRotate terminals clockwise.
.TP
.B Super+Shift+R
\fBR\fRotate terminals counter-clockwise.
.TP
.SH "Drag and Drop"
The layout can be modified by moving terminals with Drag and Drop.
To start dragging a terminal, click and hold on its titlebar.
Alternatively, hold down \fBCtrl\fP, click and hold the \fBright\fP mouse button.
Then, \fB**Release Ctrl**\fP. You can now drag the terminal to the point in the layout you would like it to be.
The zone where the terminal would be inserted will be highlighted.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+PageDown
Swap tab position with next Tab.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+PageUp
Swap tab position with previous Tab.
.SS Miscellaneous
.PP
The following items relate to miscellaneous terminal related functions.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+C
Copy selected text to clipboard.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+V
Paste clipboard text.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+S
Hide/Show \fBS\fRcrollbar.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+F
Search within terminal scrollback.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+R
Reset terminal state.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+G
Reset terminal state and clear window.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Plus (+)
Increase font size. \fBNote:\fP This may require you to press shift, depending on your keyboard.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Minus (-)
Decrease font size. \fBNote:\fP This may require you to press shift, depending on your keyboard.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Zero (0)
Restore font size to original setting.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Alt+W
Rename window title.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Alt+A
Rename tab title.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Alt+X
Rename terminal title.
.TP
.B Super+1
Insert terminal number, i.e. 1 to 12.
.TP
.B Super+0
Insert padded terminal number, i.e. 01 to 12.
.SS Grouping & Broadcasting
.PP
The following items relate to helping to focus on a specific terminal.
.TP
.B F11
Toggle window to fullscreen.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+X
Toggle between showing all terminals and only showing the current one (maximise).
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Z
Toggle between showing all terminals and only showing a scaled version of the current one (zoom).
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Alt+A
Hide the initial window. Note that this is a global binding, and can only be bound once.
.PP
The following items relate to grouping and broadcasting.
.TP
.B Super+T
Group all terminals in the current tab so input sent to one of them, goes to all terminals in the current tab.
.TP
.B Super+Shift+T
Remove grouping from all terminals in the current tab.
.TP
.B Super+G
Group all terminals so that any input sent to one of them, goes to all of them.
.TP
.B Super+Shift+G
Remove grouping from all terminals.
.TP
.B Alt+A
Broadcast to All terminals.
.TP
.B Alt+G
Broadcast to Grouped terminals.
.TP
.B Alt+O
Broadcast Off.
.PP
Most of these keybindings are changeable in the Preferences.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR terminator_config(5)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Terminator was written by Chris Jones <cmsj@tenshu.net> and others.
.PP
This manual page was written by Chris Jones <cmsj@tenshu.net>
and others.
