.TH "TERMINATOR_CONFIG" "5" "Feb 22, 2008" "Nicolas Valcarcel <nvalcarcel@ubuntu.com>" ""
.SH "NAME"
~/.config/terminator/config \- the config file for Terminator terminal emulator.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.B Terminator
config file. Terminator manages its configuration file via the ConfigObj library to combine flexibility with clear, human editable files. As of version 0.90, Terminator offers a full GUI preferences editor which automatically saves its config file so you don't need to write a config file by hand.
.PP
.SH "FILE LOCATION"
Normally the config file will be ~/.config/terminator/config, but it may be overridden with $XDG_CONFIG_HOME (in which case it will be $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminator/config)
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
This is what a Terminator config file should look like:

  # This is a comment
  [global_config]
    focus = system

  [keybindings]
    full_screen = <Ctrl><Shift>F11

  [profiles]
    [[default]]
      font = Fixed 10
      background_color = "#000000" # A comment
      foreground_color = "#FFFFFF" # Note that hex colour values must be quoted
      scrollback_lines = '500' #More comment. Single quotes are valid too
      cursor_blink = True
      custom_command = "echo \\"foo#bar\\"" #Final comment - this will work as expected.

Below are the individual sections that can exist in the config file:

.SH "global_config"
These are the options Terminator currently supports in the global_config section:
.TP
.B dbus
Control whether or not Terminator will load its DBus server. When this server is loaded, running Terminator multiple times will cause the first Terminator process to open additional windows. If this configuration item is set to False, or the python dbus module is unavailable, running Terminator multiple times will run a separate Terminator process for each invocation.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B focus
Control how focus is given to terminals. 'click' means the focus only moves to a terminal after you click in it. 'sloppy' means the focus will follow the mouse pointer. 'system' means the focus will match that used by a GNOME window manager.
Default value: \fBclick\fR
.TP
.B handle_size
Controls the width of the separator between terminals. Anything outside the range 0-5 (inclusive) will be ignored and use your default theme value.
Default value: \fB-1\fR
.TP
.B geometry_hinting
If True the window will resize in step with font sizes, if False it will follow pixels
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B window_state
When set to 'normal' the Terminator window opens normally. 'maximise' opens the window in a maximised state, 'fullscreen' in a fullscreen state and 'hidden' will make it not shown by default.
Default value: \fBnormal\fR
.TP
.B borderless \fR(boolean)
Controls whether the Terminator window will be started without window borders
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B tab_position
Defines where tabs are placed.  Can be any of: top, left, right, bottom.
If this is set to "hidden", the tab bar will not be shown. Note that hiding the tab bar is very confusing and not recommended.
Default value: \fBtop\fR
.TP
.B close_button_on_tab \fR(boolean)
If set to True, tabs will have a close button on them.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B hide_tabbar \fR(boolean)
If set to True, the tab bar will be hidden. This means there will be no visual indication of either how many tabs there are, or which one you are on. Be warned that this can be very confusing and hard to use.
.B NOTE: THIS OPTION IS DEPRECATED, USE tab_position INSTEAD
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B scroll_tabbar \fR(boolean)
If set to True, the tab bar will not fill the width of the window. The titlebars of the tabs will only take as much space as is necessary for the text they contain. Except, that is, if the tabs no longer fit the width of the window - in that case scroll buttons will appear to move through the tabs.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B try_posix_regexp \fR(boolean)
If set to True, URL matching regexps will try to use POSIX style first, and fall back on GNU style on failure.  If you are on Linux but URL matches don't work, try setting this to True.  If you are not on Linux, but you get VTE warnings on startup saying "Error compiling regular expression", set this to False to silence them (they are otherwise harmless).
Default value: \fBFalse\fR on Linux, \fBTrue\fR otherwise.
.TP
.B title_transmit_fg_color
Sets the colour of the text shown in the titlebar of the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#FFFFFF'\fR
.TP
.B title_transmit_bg_color
Sets the colour of the background of the titlebar in the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#C80003'\fR
.TP
.B title_receive_fg_color
Sets the colour of the text shown in the titlebar of any terminal that \fBwill\fR receive input from the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#FFFFFF'\fR
.TP
.B title_receive_bg_color
Sets the colour of the background of the titlebar of any terminal that \fBwill\fR receive input from the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#0076C9'\fR
.TP
.B title_inactive_fg_color
Sets the colour of the text shown in the titlebar of any terminal that will \fBnot\fR receive input from the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#000000'\fR
.TP
.B title_inactive_bg_color
Sets the colour of the background of the titlebar of any terminal that will \fBnot\fR receive input from the active terminal.
Default value: \fB'#C0BEBF'\fR
.TP
.B enabled_plugins
A list of plugins which should be loaded by default. All other plugin classes will be ignored. The default value includes two
plugins related to Launchpad, which are enabled by default to provide continuity with earlier releases where these were the
only substantial plugins available, and all plugins were loaded by default.
Default value: \fB"LaunchpadBugURLHandler, LaunchpadCodeURLHandler"\fR

.SH keybindings
These are the options Terminator currently supports in the keybindings section:
.TP
.B zoom_in
Make font one unit larger.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>plus\fR
.TP
.B zoom_out
Make font one unit smaller.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>minus\fR
.TP
.B zoom_normal
Return font to pre-configured size.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>0\fR
.TP
.B new_tab
Open a new tab.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>T\fR
.TP
.B cycle_next
Cycle forwards through the tabs.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>Tab\fR
.TP
.B cycle_prev
Cycle backwards through the tabs.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Tab\fR
.B go_next
Move cursor focus to the next tab.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>N\fR
.TP
.B go_prev
Move cursor focus to the previous tab.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>P\fR
.TP
.B go_up
Move cursor focus to the terminal above.
Default value: \fB<Alt>Up\fR
.TP
.B go_down
Move cursor focus to the terminal below.
Default value: \fB<Alt>Down\fR
.TP
.B go_left
Move cursor focus to the terminal to the left.
Default value: \fB<Alt>Left\fR
.TP
.B go_right
Move cursor focus to the terminal to the right.
Default value: \fB<Alt>Right\fR
.TP
.B split_horiz
Split the current terminal horizontally.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>O\fR
.TP
.B split_vert
Split the current terminal vertically.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>E\fR
.TP
.B close_term
Close the current terminal.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>W\fR
.TP
.B copy
Copy the currently selected text to the clipboard.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>C\fR
.TP
.B paste
Paste the current contents of the clipboard.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>V\fR
.TP
.B toggle_scrollbar
Show/Hide the scrollbar.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>S\fR
.TP
.B search
Search for text in the terminal scrollback history.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>F\fR
.TP
.B close_window
Quit Terminator.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Q\fR
.TP
.B resize_up
Move the parent dragbar upwards.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Up\fR
.TP
.B resize_down
Move the parent dragbar downwards.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Down\fR
.TP
.B resize_left
Move the parent dragbar left.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Left\fR
.TP
.B resize_right
Move the parent dragbar right.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Right\fR
.TP
.B move_tab_right
Swap the current tab with the one to its right.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Page_Down\fR
.TP
.B move_tab_left
Swap the current tab with the one to its left.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Page_Up\fR
.TP
.B toggle_zoom
Zoom/Unzoom the current terminal to fill the window.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>X\fR
.TP
.B scaled_zoom
Zoom/Unzoom the current terminal to fill the window, and scale its font.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>Z\fR
.TP
.B next_tab
Move to the next tab.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>Page_Down\fR
.TP
.B prev_tab
Move to the previous tab.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl>Page_Up\fR
.TP
.B switch_to_tab_1 - switch_to_tab_10
Keys to switch directly to the numbered tab.
Note that <Alt><Shift>1 may need to be provided as <Alt>! or similar,
depending on your keyboard layout.
Default value: \fBUnbound\fR
.TP
.B full_screen
Toggle the window to a fullscreen window.
Default value: \fBF11\fR
.TP
.B reset
Reset the terminal state.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>R\fR
.TP
.B reset_clear
Reset the terminal state and clear the terminal window.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>G\fR
.TP
.B hide_window
Toggle visibility of the Terminator window.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift><Alt>a\fR
.TP
.B group_all
Group all terminals together so input sent to one goes to all of them.
Default value: \fB<Super>g\fR
.TP
.B ungroup_all
Remove grouping from all terminals.
Default value: \fB<Super><Shift>G\fR
.TP
.B group_tab
Group all terminals in the current tab together so input sent to one goes to all of them.
Default value: \fB<Super>t\fR
.TP
.B ungroup_tab
Remove grouping from all terminals in the current tab.
Default value: \fB<Super><Shift>T\fR
.TP
.B new_window
Open a new Terminator window as part of the existing process.
Default value: \fB<Ctrl><Shift>I\fR
.TP
.B new_terminator
Spawn a new instance of Terminator.
Default value: \fB<Super>i\fR

.SH profiles
These are the options Terminator currently supports in the profiles section.
Each profile should be its own subsection with a header in the format \fB[[name]]\fR

.B allow_bold\fR (boolean)
If true, allow applications in the terminal to make text boldface.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B antialias\fR (boolean)
If false, do not apply anti-aliasing to fonts in the terminal.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B audible_bell\fR (boolean)
If true, make a noise when applications send the escape sequence for the terminal bell.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B visible_bell\fR (boolean)
If true, flash the terminal when applications send the escape sequence for the terminal bell.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B urgent_bell\fR (boolean)
If true, set the window manager "urgent" hint when applications send the escale sequence for the terminal bell. Any keypress will cancel the urgent status.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B icon_bell\fR (boolean)
If true, briefly show a small icon on the terminal title bar for the terminal bell.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B force_no_bell\fR (boolean)
If true, don't make a noise or flash. All terminal bells will be ignored.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B use_theme_colors
If true, ignore the configured colours and use values from the theme instead.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B background_color
Default colour of terminal background, as a colour specification (can be HTML-style hex digits, or a colour name such as "red"). \fBNote:\fR You may need to set \fBuse_theme_colors=False\fR to force this setting to take effect.
Default value: \fB'#000000'\fR
.TP
.B background_darkness
A value between 0.0 and 1.0 indicating how much to darken the background image. 0.0 means no darkness, 1.0 means fully dark. If the terminal is set to transparent, this setting controls how transparent it is. 0.0 means fully transparent, 1.0 means fully opaque.
Default value: \fB0.5\fR
.TP
.B background_type
Type of terminal background. May be "solid" for a solid colour, "image" for an image, or "transparent" for full transparency in compositing window managers, otherwise pseudo transparency.
Default value: \fBsolid\fR
.TP
.B background_image
Path to an image file to be used for the background of terminals.
Default value: Nothing
.TP
.B backspace_binding
Sets what code the backspace key generates. Possible values are "ascii-del" for the ASCII DEL character, "control-h" for Control-H (AKA the ASCII BS character), "escape-sequence" for the escape sequence typically bound to backspace or delete. "ascii-del" is normally considered the correct setting for the Backspace key.
Default value: \fBascii\-del\fR
.TP
.B delete_binding
Sets what code the delete key generates. Possible values are "ascii-del" for the ASCII DEL character, "control-h" for Control-H (AKA the ASCII BS character), "escape-sequence" for the escape sequence typically bound to backspace or delete. "escape-sequence" is normally considered the correct setting for the Delete key.
Default value: \fBescape\-sequence\fR
.TP
.B color_scheme \fR(boolean)
If specified this sets foreground_color and background_color to pre-set values. Possible options are 'grey_on_black', 'black_on_yellow', 'black_on_white', 'white_on_black', 'green_on_black', 'orange_on_black', 'ambience'.
Default value: \fRgrey_on_black\fR
.TP
.B cursor_blink \fR(boolean)
Controls if the cursor blinks.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B cursor_color
Default colour of cursor, as a colour specification (can be HTML-style hex digits, or a colour name such as "red").
Default value: Current value of \fBforeground_color\fR
.TP
.B cursor_shape
Default shape of cursor. Possibilities are "block", "ibeam", and "underline".
Default value: \fBblock\fR
.TP
.B emulation
Sets what type of terminal should be emulated.
Default value: \fBxterm\fR
.TP
.B use_system_font
Whether or not to use the GNOME default monospace font for terminals.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B font
An Pango font name. Examples are "Sans 12" or "Monospace Bold 14".
Default value: \fBMono 8\fR
.TP
.B foreground_color
Default colour of text in the terminal, as a colour specification (can be HTML-style hex digits, or a colour name such as "red"). \fBNote:\fR You may need to set \fBuse_theme_colors=False\fR to force this setting to take effect.
Default value: \fB'#AAAAAA'\fR
.TP
.B scrollbar_position
Where to put the terminal scrollbar. Possibilities are "left", "right", and "disabled".
Default value: \fBright\fR
.TP
.B show_titlebar
If true, a titlebar will be drawn for each terminal which shows the current title of that terminal.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B scroll_background \fR(boolean)
If true, scroll the background image with the foreground text; if false, keep the image in a fixed position and scroll the text above it.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B scroll_on_keystroke \fR(boolean)
If true, pressing a key jumps the scrollbar to the bottom.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B scroll_on_output \fR(boolean)
If true, whenever there's new output the terminal will scroll to the bottom.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B alternate_screen_scroll \fR(boolean)
Whether or not the mouse wheel scrolls alternate screen buffers (man, vim, mutt, etc). This is the default behavior of VTE, however Ubuntu and possbly other distributions feature patched versions of VTE where this functionality is optional. The option only effects the patched versions of VTE, otherwise it is ignored.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B scrollback_lines
Number of scrollback lines to keep around. You can scroll back in the terminal by this number of lines; lines that don't fit in the scrollback are discarded. Be careful with this setting; it's the primary factor in determining how much memory the terminal will use.
Default value: \fB500\fR
.TP
.B scrollback_infinite
If this is set to True, scrollback_lines will be ignored and VTE will continue to allocate RAM for scrollback history.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B focus_on_close
Sets which terminal should get the focus when another terminal is closed. Values can be "prev", "next" or "auto".
Using "auto", if the closed terminal is within a splitted window, the focus will be on the sibling terminal rather than another tab.
Default value: \fBauto\fR
.TP
.B exit_action
Possible values are "close" to close the terminal, and "restart" to restart the command.
Default value: \fBclose\fR
.TP
.B palette
Terminals have a 16-colour palette that applications inside the terminal can use. This is that palette, in the form of a colon-separated list of colour names. Colour names should be in hex format e.g. "#FF00FF".
.TP
.B word_chars
When selecting text by word, sequences of these characters are considered single words. Ranges can be given as "A-Z". Literal hyphen (not expressing a range) should be the first character given.
Default value: \fB'\-A\-Za\-z0\-9,./?%&#:_'\fR
.TP
.B mouse_autohide \fR(boolean)
Controls whether the mouse cursor should be hidden while typing.
Default value: \fBTrue\fR
.TP
.B use_custom_command \fR(boolean)
If True, the value of \fBcustom_command\fR will be used instead of the default shell.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
.B custom_command
Command to execute instead of the default shell, if \fBuse_custom_command\fR is set to True.
Default value: Nothing
.TP
.B http_proxy
URL of an HTTP proxy to use, e.g. http://proxy.lan:3128/
Default value: Nothing
.TP
.B encoding
Character set to use for the terminal.
Default value: \fBUTF-8\fR
.TP
.B copy_on_selection \fR(boolean)
If set to True, text selections will be automatically copied to the clipboard, in addition to being made the Primary selection.
Default value: \fBFalse\fR

.SH layouts

This describes the layouts section of the config file. Like with the profiles, each layout should be defined as a sub-section with a name formatted like: \fB[[name]]\fR.

Each object in a layout is a named sub-sub-section with various properties:

[layouts]
  [[default]]
    [[window0]]
      type = Window
    [[child1]]
      type = Terminal
      parent = window0

Window objects may not have a parent attribute. \fBEvery\fR other object must specify a parent. This is how the structure of the window is determined.

.SH plugins

Terminator plugins can add their own configuration to the config file, and will appear as a sub-section. Please refer to the documentation of individual plugins for more information.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gnome\-terminal(1), http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/configobj.html
